The pro-Palestinian protests
that engulfed college campuses
have now found a new stage
the graduation stage at Duke
University Sunday.
About 30 students
walked out of the commencement
ceremony as comedian
Jerry Seinfeld was being introduced.
Seinfeld has supported Israel
throughout the war against Hamas in Gaza,
and here is some of what he
then said in his address.
I totally admire the ambitions
of your generation
to create a more just
and inclusive society.
I think it is also wonderful
that you care so much about
not hurting other people's feelings
in the million and one ways.
We all do that every second of every day.
It's lovely to want to fix those things.
That is far from
the only protests to hit college
commencement ceremonies over the weekend.
CNN's Nick Valencia joins us now.
What all happened, Nick?
Yeah. Hey.
Good morning.
Commencement season is upon us.
And these pro-Palestinian demonstrators
are choosing
to voice their opposition to the war
in Gaza in a variety of ways,
some continuing to call for a cease fire.
And over the weekend,
we saw that at commencement ceremonies
across the country. Really?
Some chanted, others held signs,
some draped themselves
in Palestinian flags
calling for their schools
to divest from Israel.
But for the most part,
these ceremonies went on
with without a hitch.
in Southern California, though,
there was a brief interruption.
According to the New York Times,
at least one person was arrested
over a skirmish outside
of Pomona College's graduation.
They had to move their graduation
30 miles away from their campus.
And, at Duke University,
we saw what happened
there in the intro, comedian Jerry
Seinfeld, who's been
a very vocal supporter of Israel
since the Hamas terrorist
attacked on October 7th.
He was protested by a few dozen
pro-Palestinian demonstrators
who chose to walk out
and have their own commencement ceremony
across the country
in California, at UC Berkeley,
the dean of students
had to take the microphone.
There was a pause in ceremony
there and listen to
what the dean of students
had to say to try to get control
again of that graduation ceremony.
Students, if
you're open to it.
I invite you to speak with me
after the event in a space
that's more appropriate.
But in the meanwhile,
I ask that you allow the program
to continue.
Okay.
Because otherwise
we're going to have to continue
to have you leave.
And that breaks my heart.
So,
the ceremony did continue.
No one was arrested.
And those demonstrators,
we understand, did leave voluntarily.
More commencement
addresses and,
graduation ceremonies are planned
across the country this week.
And we're starting to see some schools
try to get ahead
of these potential demonstrations.
We're just learning.
The University of Wisconsin Milwaukee
has reached an agreement
with proposals
Tinian demonstrators
to dismantle their encampment
by tomorrow.
In exchange,
they've agreed not to interrupt,
or not to interrupt a, graduation
ceremony in exchange,
the university will join calls
now for a cease fire in Gaza.
Kate. Nick Valencia, thank you so much,
As college commencement
ceremonies continue,
so do the protests on Sunday.
Comedian Jerry Seinfeld was interrupted
at Duke University's graduation ceremony.
In addition
to receiving an honorary degree.
Jerry is also serving as our commencement
speaker today.
About 30 students walked out
as the comedian was introduced.
You can see some students
waving the Palestinian flag.
Here's how Seinfeld responded.
And I know all of you
here are going to use
all of your brains and muscle and soul
to improve the world,
and I know you're
going to do a bang up job.
And when you're done, as I am now,
I bet the world
because of
you will be a much better place.
But it will still not make
a whole hell of a lot of sense.
And it is worth the sacrifice
of an occasional discomfort
to have some laughs.
Meanwhile,
Pomona College
in, Southern
California moved its ceremony
more than 30 miles away
to avoid the pro-Palestinian protest
on campus.
CNN's Camille Banal has the story.
Many students and parents
frustrated in this case
because they have to drive 30 miles
and change their plans
just to make sure that commencement
goes on as planned.
So instead of it being in Pomona College,
it's going to be here in L.A.
at the Shrine Auditorium.
You can see it here behind me.
There are security measures
already in place.
There is a barrier
metal barrier, and already
security guards
who are not allowed inside the auditorium
if you do not have a ticket.
The school apologizing
and saying not only that
this was an inconvenience,
but also saying that they would provide
transportation
for the students
to get here to Los Angeles.
Nonetheless, students,
are just disappointed
and say they're not happy about this
whole change.
Take a listen to what one student said.
I think it's sad.
And I think it's,
it's a really bad way
to end your college career.
And I think it's showing
exactly where Pomona is headed.
And some universities,
like Columbia and USC,
canceling altogether
this big
traditional commencement ceremony
and instead
making other plans, citing safety reasons
and wanting to avoid protest.
We saw students at Duke University
walking out, right
as the commencement
speaker was introduced.
That was Jerry Seinfeld.
he was able to give his address
as planned,
with no apparent interruptions,
and this weekend
at different universities,
we saw students at UC Berkeley chanting
and protesting and briefly pausing,
the commencement ceremony.
They then walked out of that event
and also at,
Virginia Commonwealth University,
at least a dozen students
also walking out when the governor was,
beginning to give his
commencement address.
So, again,
that's what a lot of universities
are trying to avoid
this weekend and others
who have events later on.
And of course, this is also caused
just a lot of frustration
among students who had to deal
with graduating from high school
in the middle
of a pandemic, and now again,
having to deal with commencement
under difficult circumstances
or under something
that they do not consider
a normal commencement ceremony.
Camilla Burnell, CNN, Los Angeles.